Okay, welcome back to Gary's Economics.
Today, we're going to teach you how to
take over your country on YouTube.
Okay, so I have been back in the country for
just over a month now, and I've been trying to
take in the changes in the political landscape.
We find ourselves in quite an interesting situation
here in this country, across the world, especially
us as a YouTube channel, which is we are increasingly
looking like we are basically going to win the
public debate on the need for some form of wealth
taxation, on the need for stopping increases in
inequality, on the need for preventing wealth
being sucked out of society by the very rich.
But increasingly, it looks like we are basically
going to win the public and we are going to be blocked by
various institutional powers,
most obviously the political parties.
Here in this country, it's super interesting because
we have in power the center-left political party,
which is kind of the party which in theory is supposed
to be the party which allows these kind of things
to happen, allows inequality to stop increasing.
We're probably going to get blocked by them, and it puts
us in this interesting situation where we have obviously
taken huge amount of power politically here on this
YouTube channel, but it might end up not being enough.
And it leads us into this situation where we
basically need to ask ourselves, "Can we take more
power?" And that is what I hope we are going to discuss
today, how to take over your country on YouTube.
And I want this to function really as a how-to.
What I want to do today is really slow it down,
so I think it's going to be a bit of longer video.
And I want to really explain, how do you do this?
Because I think if we end up in this situation where
the vast majority of the public wants something done on
inequality, but we are being blocked kind of by these
elite classes, including the left-wing political
parties, we're going to need a situation where we
really build a broad popular movement, and it will
really help if that movement is international.
So I want to do a how-to here which kind of explains
what we're doing and what we're going to do, but also
explains how you yourself can try to take over
your country using social media and using YouTube.
So obviously, this title, "How to Take Over Your
Country on YouTube, " is, intentionally a little
bit controversial, a little bit salacious, and I think
when you hear it, you might think, "That's ridiculous.
You can't take over a country on YouTube."
and to that, I would answer, look at Donald Trump.
Look at the US.
Look at the US alt-right.
They basically did take over their country with
a largely social media-led political campaign.
Donald Trump, as you will be aware, does
not have a history of being a politician.
He was not historically part of the Republican Party.
He was not senator for years,
like every previous president.
He was basically a celebrity, and he used his
celebrity power to take over the Republican Party.
And especially in the most recent
election, he really aggressively used
social media to win the election.
Here in the UK, we have Nigel Farage, who is
the leader of our far-right party, and I think
he will win the next election, largely because
his party and his broader political movement is
far more effective on social media, on YouTube.
So as absurd as it sounds, I think if you
step back and look at it, it is obvious,
and really it has been obvious for years,
that traditional media is losing power.
Especially in the realm of politics,
social media is gaining power.
And over time, social media is going to become
more and more and more powerful, and more and more
important in the realm of traditional politics.
And I think what is super interesting is that even
though that move was really quite obvious five or maybe
even ten years ago, the traditional political players,
by which I mean not just the traditional historic
parties, like the Conservatives and Labour
here, or the Republicans and Dems in the US.
Not just the traditional political parties, but also
the traditional power players in terms of newspapers
and traditional media, simply didn't move into
this social media space, which was and still
is obviously going to become dominant in politics.
And it created this just massive opportunity
to almost just walk in and take political
power because the media format changed.
It moved to this new space.
We had all of these, like, massively powerful
institutions, like political parties, newspapers, TV
channels, that simply did not move into the new space.
And the obvious example of a group that moved
into this is the US alt-right or the US alt-right,
far right, whatever you want to call them.
They aggressively moved in to this online space,
and I think you have to give credit to them.
They built a relatively successful
online political space.
And I've been calling
the model that the US alt-right used, I've
been calling it the WWF model, which is WWF...
WWE is the massive US wrestling corporation.
I was a big fan, like most people in my
country were when we were teenagers.
When you start watching WWF or when I was a
kid, you walk in and there's 30, 40, 50
wrestlers, and they all have their different faces
and personalities, larger than life personalities.
These guys are a group.
They hate those guys.
They're allied with these guys.
And it creates like a very social space, basically.
You pick your favorites.
You pick the guys you like.
They talk each other.
You and your friends know them.
And I think that, that model is obviously a very
successful model for politics, basically, because
we live in a world where young people
can't afford to go out very often.
They're working really hard.
Life is difficult.
So they want to consume their politics
in a form that is very social.
So this new kind of politics, which takes place
on social media, and which the US alt-right
has done very effectively, I think it just is
a very powerful way to do politics.
And I think that the group that does
that successfully and does that well will
basically win politics in the future.
But the situation we have is there is really only one
group in the world that has effectively done that, built
this kind of full and social like a cultural
space in online politics, which is the US alt-right.
And because they're making this stuff in
English language, that is being watched all
over the world, especially by young people who
are comfortable watching YouTube in English.
And, I think this is one of the big
reasons, basically, why the far right and
the alt-right have done really well.
But you need to combine this also with the other
thing, which we talk about a lot on this channel,
which is living standards are falling very quickly.
Yeah, this is something I talk about in
every video, so anyone who's watched before
will know exactly what I'm talking about.
Wealth inequality is increasing very quickly.
Wealth is being sucked out of governments.
Wealth is being sucked out of the middle class.
That is really badly affecting living standards.
Western welfare states are being shut down.
Ordinary people can't afford to buy homes.
And that is creating this very strong sense
of dissatisfaction with current politicians
and with the current economic setup.
So if you combine these two things, like an
aggressive move towards a different kind of media, that
the traditional politics and traditional politicians
and traditional media has not adapted to, and this
aggressive, and to be honest, I think justified,
collapse in faith in the existing economic setup,
it creates this unbelievably huge opportunity to take
an enormous amount of political power to basically
anyone who is willing and able to fill that space.
So I started to realise this in 2020, basically.
And from here, I'm going to kind of explain a little
bit of what we have done up till now and what my
plan has been to take the amount of political power
we've taken and to try and take more from now.
I developed my ideas about inequality
when I was a professional trader in 2011.
I wasn't able to successfully quit trading till 2014.
And then I spent sort of a long period of
time trying to figure out, "Well, how do
we actually do something about inequality?"
And I did a variety of different things.
I don't come from a political
background, and I didn't really know where to look.
But since my work was trying to reduce
inequality, I kind of looked to the political
left 'cause I think that's the space you
imagine that this work would be done.
I looked in the political left.
You'd be surprised that there's not... there was not
actually lot of work being done in inequality there.
I went back to university.
I did a two-year masters at Oxford.
And eventually, I decided to try
and get involved in the media.
And I started to get involved in the media in 2020,
which was obviously when COVID started to happen.
It's easy to forget now that during COVID itself,
the general narrative in the news was that
after COVID we would have a really booming economy.
People used to talk about the Roaring '20s,
which would be driven by pent-up demand.
But I was convinced, because of really aggressive
increases in wealth inequality during COVID, that we
would have a phenomenally weak post-COVID economy.
We'd have a cost of living crisis.
We would have an inflation crisis.
We'd have an inequality crisis.
We'd have an asset price crisis,
all of which has happened, obviously.
If you don't believe I made those predictions,
you can go and watch the
first video on this channel from June 2020.
So I started making these, like, really,
negative predictions in 2020.
And I was writing them in The Guardian.
I wrote for lot of newspapers in 2020.
And a lot of my friends who were aware of
what I was doing, especially my friends from
poorer backgrounds, spoke me about these
articles, and they were like, "Oh my God,
like, do you really think,
do you really think that's going to happen?
Like, what should we do?" And,
loads and loads of my friends from poorer backgrounds,
were having these conversations with me.
And what it made me realise was we were about to move
into a period of really aggressive economic worsening.
And this is on the back of, I think, 12
years already of economic worsening for
living standards for ordinary people.
I realised that my friends really didn't have anywhere
to go to, to get good economic analysis.
So obviously, there is economic analysis on places like
the BBC or in The Guardian and in the mainstream media,
in the newspapers, but, but it's rubbish, mate.
First of all, the
quality is genuinely bad, right?
So I'm, you know, a former trader.
As a former trader, you... I
worked for a very big investment bank.
You get enormous amounts of economic analysis.
We are obviously not watching,
the stuff on the news.
Some guys might read the Financial Times, but the truth
is that economic analysis is simply qualitatively bad.
But even if you separate from the low quality... And
I would add that that's largely because,
like, if you're a good economist, if you're
a really good economist, you're not going to be
******* writing for the Financial Times, right?
You're going to be working for a bank,
obviously, 'cause you just get paid so much more.
Never mind, like, talking for the BBC.
So the analysis itself is bad.
But beyond the badness of the analysis, the
packaging and the delivery is horrendous.
So, like, what chance does, like, a regular guy
have of understanding this, like, low quality, like,
really unwelcoming, really inaccessible, really
difficult to understand economic analysis?
And I saw that when I was writing
for The Guardian and other such newspapers in
2020, when it was obvious, to me at least, that we
were about to head into a massive economic crisis.
And, when I saw that, I saw immediately, like,
you are about to enter, like, a historic, massive
economic crisis, which is not even going to be
temporary, which is going to be permanent and worsening.
And like 80, 90% of the country do not have
a single journalist or media outlet that
they trust to deliver economic analysis.
Like, I saw that and I stopped
writing for newspapers immediately.
And I, I just... Well, I was complaining
to my mates on WhatsApp like, "This is ridiculous.
This is ridiculous." Like, the space
for good economic analysis on YouTube is
already massive and it's going to be enormous
and it's insane that we're not doing it.
So was very fortunate, like a friend of mine in my
sort of group WhatsApp, from high school, was
like a big camera enthusiast and he was like, "Yeah,
let's just start shooting videos basically." So
we started shooting videos in 2020, and I
guess now I should probably speak a little bit about
how you do build up a YouTube channel.
But, first I just want to make
like the context extremely clear.
I know I've said this already,
but the gap is ******* massive.
You know, I'm speaking to you here from
the UK, but I don't care what country
you're from, this is true in your country.
The vast majority of people in your country are
really worried about the economic situation and
they do not have anybody delivering to them good
quality economic analysis, in a way they understand.
That is like the
commercial gap here is enormous.
People want it in video form, they want it
on social media, that is the way media is going.
Nobody's delivering this.
The gap is enormous.
All right, so say you want to fill that gap.
I think I'll split this bit into
two parts, which is basically what I did
and then I'll try to relate that
to like what you can do if you want to do it.
Because I think with social media and YouTube,
the first thing to say is I don't
consider myself a social media or YouTube expert.
I consider myself to be like a really good economic
expert, and I think I'm really good at economics
and I've got a lot of evidence to justify that.
And I had to develop a style of communication.
But for me, from the beginning, the big
picture pitch was really clear, and it's
basically what I just said to you, right?
Which is good quality economic analysis, which
is clearly explained, easy to understand,
accessible and welcoming to ordinary people.
That was always my pitch.
And I always wanted to focus it on this
particular thing, which I understand, which I think is
missing from the analysis, has been for a long time,
still is to a degree, even though we are filling it,
which is that wealth inequality and the
aggressive growth in wealth inequality is really,
really aggressively driving living standards.
So, I think what is interesting about what I did
is, it is really like in lot of ways a direct
continuation of what I did when I was a trader.
So if you've read my book, you'll sort
of know that I made my money by catching this
back in 2011, that growing inequality was going to drive
the economy and was going to drive living standards.
And I speak lot in my book about how
the way to make money as a trader, it's not
about being right on the economy, it's about
specifically recognising when something is
missing, when the majority opinion is wrong.
Because if the majority opinion is wrong on a thing,
then it means financial market prices will be wrong,
which means you can make money in financial markets.
So that's how I made my money as a trader,
and I basically wanted to do the same thing as a
YouTuber, which is just point out this one thing,
which is people don't recognise that growing
wealth inequality is really driving the economy.
And that is going to mean that their predictions
are wrong, and then that's going to give us
like a really good opportunity to continually
make correct predictions in advance.
And if you watch the first video on this
channel, which we'll put in the description,
you'll see it's like really predictions-focused.
Like, I come out and I say, "There's
going to be a cost of living crisis.
There's going to be an inflation crisis.
House prices will go up, stock prices will
go up, gold prices will go up, inequality
will go up, government debt will go up.
There'll probably be austerity." Like, it's...
And all of these predictions were predictions
which were super not consensus at the time.
So when I approached the YouTube, it was
really an extension of what I did as a trader,
which is, as a trader, I considered my job
to be understanding the, like, consensus
understanding of the economy and isolating
specifically what important things were missing.
So, the big picture mistake that economists
have made for, 20, 30 years now is
simply not looking at the wealth distribution.
Really, all you need do is really look at the
wealth distribution and you'll be like, "Oh my
God, this is like changing, like really, really,
really dramatically." But at the beginning of COVID,
there was this like... To be honest, it was really
amazing what happened at the beginning of COVID.
Like, you had this situation now where like
the UK government has given out... total UK
government deficit since the beginning of COVID
is a trillion pounds, £20,000 pounds per person.
The US number, last time I checked,
was $13 trillion, $13 trillion.
Like, unbelievably huge, which is
something like $50,000 per US taxpayer.
So we knew these huge amounts of
money were going to be given out.
We should have known that that was going to massively
affect the distribution, and we should have
known that that was going to massively affect living
standards, and nobody was talking about it.
So it was, it was just a massive opportunity
to highlight something in the common understanding
and the common portrayal that was massively wrong.
And, like I knew if we could get ahead
of it, we can make the videos way in advance,
correctly predict everything that would happen,
like, it would be like... It's gold for us.
Like, at the time, obviously we... It
was the first video on the channel.
We didn't have any followers.
I can continue pointing back... continue pointing
back continuously to that June 2020 video
and say, "Look, we knew it in advance.
Nobody else knew it." So, this obviously
was my strategy to building a social media channel,
which was to basically take the thing I'm an expert
on and my preexisting expertise, which was the economy
from like a trading perspective.... pointing out what's wrong.
And just explain that thing again and again,
like, really, really clearly, and, really,
like, understandably and accessibly on YouTube.
And if you go and, like, look through the
early videos, like, you'll see there's a lot
of, like, me ******* around in my friend's
back garden and us walking around the canals.
And you'll see us basically, like, developing a style,
and me developing, like, my communication style.
For about a year and a half, we sort of ****ed
around trying to figure out how to do videos.
The channel started in June 2020.
Jan 2022, I was away for a couple of
months in Colombia, and then I came back and
I decided to get really serious about it.
That's when we started doing weekly videos.
We really, I really increased the
amount of energy I put into the videos.
We started to make, I think, really
good videos beginning of 2022.
My approach was always, there's no point trying to bring
an audience until you've got, like, 20, 25 good
videos, because you have one really good video, you
bring in an audience, there's nothing for them to watch.
So I started in... in Jan 2022.
That's when we started to make really good videos,
and in the middle of that year is when I got
called up by a literary agent for the first time.
And then we were in a situation where
we were making really good videos.
I felt we were ready to bring the audience,
but the audience wasn't there yet.
And, I basically saw the book
as, like, an opportunity to just
finally we've got the product there on YouTube that
the political potential power is massive.
Really, I saw the book as an opportunity to basically
get a free massive PR campaign for the YouTube.
And I thought that if the YouTube is ready,
and I can write, like, a really ******* good book,
I can get a really good book deal from a big publisher,
they will have to give us massive publicity campaigns.
It will come out at a time when the economy
is collapsing, and we have the potential
to build just a massive YouTube channel.
And I always remember in my early pitch meetings
with Penguin, because we were having these pitch
meetings in 2022, and I remember saying to them, like,
"You might be worried that we are talking now in the
midst of the economic crisis, and when the book comes
out in 2024, the economic crisis will have recovered.
I guarantee you the economic crisis will
be worse in 2024 than it is in 2022."
And I think time has proved that right.
So, what I'm saying is, that gap to explain
what's happening economically and politically
in a clear way, is only going to grow because the
economic and political crisis is only going to worsen.
And for me, that is the way that I approached it.
That is the way that we approached it.
I really aggressively used the book
as a way of blowing up the channel.
But I want to make it clear, you don't necessarily
have to use the model that I used, and you
don't have to do the kind of content that I do.
I think on social media,
it's very important that you leverage... you kind
of lean into your personality and your expertise.
Because if you try and... I mean, unless you
are also, you know, somebody with, like, a really
strong background in inequality economics and
trading, you're not going to be able to do what I do.
But that doesn't mean that replicating in
your own style what I do is not possible.
For long time I was quite worried that
my social media success was very heavily based
upon my unique backstory, and that it wasn't
replicable, which would mean that I would kind
of have to carry the weight for a long time.
And that was why I was really pleased when I
saw Jimmy the Giant, who is another YouTuber,
social media, politics, economics guy.
When I saw him making videos about politics,
economics, earlier in the year, that's why
I was so pleased see the success of his channel.
Because when I saw the success of his channel, for those
of you who haven't seen Jimmy the Giant or haven't seen
his, interview on our channel, Jimmy the Giant,
he's... I think he's a really nice guy, hardworking guy.
I would consider him a friend now.
He, you know, he hasn't been a trader.
He hasn't been to these fancy economics universities.
Regular guy, smart guy, hardworking guy from Milton
Keynes, just ordinary guy, ordinary background, willing
do the research, willing to do the understanding,
really good at designing videos, making
videos, had a preexisting YouTube channel
doing things like parkour and subculture stuff.
And he moved into this space, politics, economics,
and his channel grew super, super quickly.
And I think what that shows you is
people want this, people want this.
There's massive demand for
doing politics, economic stuff.
And you don't have to necessarily
have the background that I've got.
So, the demand is there.
It's not just me and Jimmy the Giant doing it.
I think another guy who is really
interesting, in this country is there's,
an economist called Richard Murphy.
He has channel called, I think it's
called Economist Richard Murphy or something like that.
Anyway, you'll find it on YouTube.
And, yeah, he's not your classic influencer type,
but he's created this channel which talks about
economics, aggressively talks about economics.
And, you know, I don't know if he's in his
50s or his 60s, you know, gray-haired older
gentleman talking in, you know, slightly posher
accent about economics, and this guy's got
quarter of a million subs on YouTube, right?
And it shouldn't work, but it does work, because,
number one, Richard Murphy works, incredibly
hard, does a video every single day, which
hats off to Richard Murphy for doing that.
But also just because the demand is there.
And, you know, it's not just Richard and Jimmy and me.
There's a guy called Ordinary Things, who does
longer form documentaries about politics, economics.
He's got over a million subs.
You know, that's just here in the UK.
There's tons of people.
Obviously, in the US you've got guys like Hasan Piker.
The demand is there.
Traditional media has just not stepped into the space.
And then you have just, like, just ordinary
people like Jimmy, like... There's a guy called
Josh who runs Ordinary Things, or like me,
you know, making videos in our kitchens and
getting more views than ******* Question Time.
You know, getting more views than Sky News, getting more
views than BBC News, because the economy is collapsing.
People want the media in a new form, and the
traditional, powerful media and political
institutions are simply not filling the space.
So the opportunity there is absolutely,
absolutely massive, and I would love
to see more guys making videos, running
into the space, creating video content.
Have to be realistic.
It's hard work.
If you are successful, you will lose your privacy.
You won't make ****-all money early on.
You can make money from it.
So we have never put like in-video advertisements.
You know, we're not like... I'm not
trying to sell you Huel in these videos.
I didn't get paid to say that.
If you put adverts in the videos, you can
make it work, and if you see these guys, I
am independently financially secure without this,
so I'm able to do it without advertisements.
Stick the adverts in there,
make it work, build a channel.
The audience is there.
If you build it, they will
come, like come into this space.
And if I'm going to say that, I should shout
out the other guys who are doing it.
There's a British-German influencer
making good videos called Anna Bocar.
There's guy here in the UK called
Kwajo Housing, he's popular on Twitter.
I'm trying to convince Jordan Stevens, who's a
member of Rizzle Kicks, to start YouTube channel.
He's quite big on Insta.
Novara Media have always supported us.
Know Justice is another channel,
who she's also on Novara Media.
But there's tons, and just join the space.
Jump in, jump in, if you can.
Obviously, I don't need all
of you to go to YouTube Channel.
You don't all need to go and, create a
social media channel, because we already have
this one, and we already have other people
who are hopefully going to fill that space.
If you not going to be the guy that makes the videos, and
you don't need to be the guy that makes the videos, what
do you do to support the channels that exist, like us?
And what do we do, what do I do, once you
have built this very successful political channel,
to then break through these barriers that are
being put in the way by a lot of institutions,
but most obviously by the political parties?
Okay, so for me, the YouTube project was always from
day one, like fundamentally, a political project.
and when I say that, I don't mean I'm
trying to become an MP or I'm trying to become
Prime Minister, because I'm definitely not.
I'm really hoping I never have
do either of those things.
But I came into social media because I
saw this opportunity to aggressively take
political power, basically.
And, the aim, for me, has always been very
clear, which is growing wealth inequality is,
is totally ******* up living standards.
it's going to make your kids poor and your
grandkids poor, and I want, at the very least,
to stop that aggressive growth, so that
we can stop the fall in living standards.
It's a simple project and I think the
simplicity is part of the power.
There's a lot of potential power here, in the
sense that what is happening economically is
going to really devastate the future economic
lives of like at least 70, 80% of the country.
And that, that's true both here in
the UK and it's true wherever you're watching,
wherever you're from, if you're not in the UK.
So in a sense, politically,
it's illogical, right?
Because we live in democracies, and yet we have
these economic political systems which are going to
impoverish 70 to 80, maybe more percent of families.
So I've always been like really, really strictly
focused on having like a very single issue
plan, which is what's going to happen is not
in the interest of the vast majority of
the public, or even a lot of the politicians.
So my focus has always been to be very
single issue and strategic.
And this is not as easy as it looks, because
we have used traditional media to grow this channel.
And I've done a lot of radio, I've done
a lot of TV, I've done a lot of podcast.
With the book, we got like one massive hardback
campaign, we got one massive paperback campaign.
And these are all using, putting you in
newspapers, putting you in traditional media.
And when you appear in traditional media,
at first, they will have you on as an expert
on the subject that you an expert in, which,
in my case, is the economy and inequality.
So you're appearing on shows, you're
talking about the economy, you're talking
about inequality, and I was very comfortable
doing that because what I'm an expert in.
The next stage in being successful in
media is they will start asking you do,
what I would call more generalist shows.
So the most obvious example is they'll say,
"Can you come on with Jeremy Kyle," or whatever,
"And do the news review on Sunday morning?"
And you go on, and the way it works is
you need to go on at like 8:00 in the morning.
So they send you at like 7:00 in the morning or 6:30
in the morning and email with like, "We're going to cover
these 10 topics." And if you're lucky, you've negotiated
that one of those topics will be your expert topic.
You're like, "Okay, I'm going to come on because
we're going to talk about the economy and inequality."
But the other nine topics are generally bull****
that you don't know nothing about, right?
And that's, this is the way the media works, right?
You know, I'm an expert on inequality and I'm
getting a list of 10 things, and I have to talk
about, if I'm lucky, inequality, and also *******
Prince William and ******* smash the boats and
******* all kind of ******* Love Island last
night and all this kind of bull****, basically.
So I did it once.
I went on this show, and, suddenly,
you're put in this weird situation where you're
forced to talk as if you're an expert on all kinds
of bull**** you're not an expert on, basically.
So the media tries to push you into this generalist
role, and, for me, I felt that was basically,
if I did that kind of show, it would discredit me as an
expert on the thing I'm genuinely an expert on, which
is the collapse of living standards in this country.
And because the thing that I'm an expert on
should be something you're interested in, and the
majority of the country should be interested in if
you don't want to impoverish your grandkids and your
kids. I felt that it was better to basically reject any
generalist media and only accept any media that
would, let me talk about the economy.
And, if you... There's an interesting example
of this, is when I went for the one and only time on
Politics Live, which I think was the beginning of 2023.
And, I went on and they put inequality on the panel.
And I got asked to talk about all kinds of ****.
I got asked to talk about lab-grown meat.
And whenever I got asked to talk about anything that
wasn't inequality, I just aggressively refused and
said, "Listen, I'm here to protect your kids
from falling into poverty, and I'm going to talk
about the inequality, I'm going to talk about taxation."
And I... and they never called me back.
But it worked for us.
It worked for us and it's still working for us.
And I was able to do that because I knew that I had a
book deal and I knew that I'd get a big press campaign.
But also if you look at when I
went on Piers Morgan earlier this year,
I had a really similar strategy basically.
Like, I know... Piers Morgan is part of this like,
very successful, very popular alt-right US media.
And I watched Piers Morgan going in and then I saw what
they did, which is, we exist in a political climate
which is very fractious and there's a lot of hate.
And people who consider themselves to be on the
right, hate who they see as being on the left.
left, hate people who they see as being on the right.
I personally honestly don't
think I'm on the left or right.
I just think I'm ******* right on the
economy and don't want the economy to collapse.
So, I knew that they were going to try to sort
of pigeonhole me as like, as left-wing, and my
plan was to just, again, refuse to talk about
anything that would identify me as left-wing.
So, they use what is called a wedge issue.
This is like, another interesting concept.
Like, a wedge issue... A wedge issue is
like, is a politics media way that you
use to discredit your opponent, which is you...
They come in with an issue they're strong on.
So for me, it's like, "Inequality is
****ed up, the billionaires pay no tax.
Cut tax on working people, raise tax on billionaires.
It's super popular, and if you're not an idiot,
you should support it." So, I come in with that.
These guys are basically paid stooges
for billionaires half the time.
And they don't... Whatever they want, they don't
want to talk about that, because they don't want to talk
about the one thing which the public love, which is
going to mean taxing them and their ******* paymasters.
So, they try to move the subject of conversation onto
a wedge issue, which is an issue which they think
your opinion is going to be at odds with their audience.
So, when I went on Piers Morgan, they asked me,
"What do you think of Donald Trump?" And they
want me to say, "******* Donald Trump, he's such a
*****," basically because their audience is the US
alt-right, which is largely Donald Trump supporters.
And they want me to say that, and then
they're going to say, "Oh well, look, this guy,
he's on the other ******* team.
Hate this guy.
Don't tax the rich.
They're dickheads." And they asked me that about
Donald Trump and they asked me that about Elon Musk.
And both times, I just said, "I don't ******* know.
I've never met Donald Trump.
I've never met Elon Musk.
Do you know him?
Have you met him?" I think Piers
Morgan has met him apparently.
But basically, I think once you have the channel,
I think the political power is
just relentless focus on message.
Relentless focus on message.
And I think the reason that we have a lot of potential
political power here is because we are talking about
the issues that the vast majority of the country cares
about, which is the impoverishment of their families.
If you don't do something on inequality,
you will, your kids will be ******* poor and they will
live in a tiny little house, and they will struggle
pay the rent, and they will struggle to pay the bills.
That will get worse and worse.
Healthcare system will collapse,
education system will collapse.
So for me, I think the political power
is like, relentless focus on message.
So, if you are worried about the growth in inequality
and you are not looking start your own social
media channel, which you absolutely 100% don't
want to do, the key thing that I want you to do
is to be an amplifier of this very simple message.
Which is, if you don't deal with growing inequality
of wealth... This is not about doctors and lawyers.
This is about people who hoard huge amounts of assets.
If you don't deal with that asset hoarding,
their wealth share will grow and grow and grow.
Your kids' wealth share will fall and fall and fall.
Government wealth share has already collapsed.
And what that means is, no houses for your kids,
no NHS, no healthcare system, no education system,
no local services, the ******* police, everything.
That's what you lose.
You lose your house, you lose
your ability to pay the bills.
That's what it is.
Simple message.
I want you to really... For me, from the very
beginning, what... The big thing I want to do is
to build that bridge of understanding, connecting
the reason your living standards are falling
is because of growing wealth inequality.
Their share of the pie is growing and growing and
growing and growing, and your share of the pie is
shrinking and shrinking and shrinking and shrinking.
Unless you do something about their aggressive,
rapid growth in wealth of the super rich,
your kids will live in poverty.
Simple message.
So, I think that simplicity
of message is super powerful.
I think we are winning the public here on that.
We are in this situation now where we're largely
being blocked by kind of elite institutions,
and I'm going to speak about that next.
But what I need... The only reason that we
are as close as we are to getting this, and
I think we're unbelievably closer than we
were a couple of years ago, is because of the
strength and the power of that simple message.
And because of the amplification
we get through ordinary people.
So, it's unbelievably important you keep amplifying
this message amongst your friends, amongst your family.
And for those of you in other countries,
this channel is not as popular outside the UK.
It's also popular in Australia
and Ireland and places.
But in other countries, this message and this channel
is not as popular, which means there is a massive
space for you to do, in your country, what I'm doing.
I would ******* love to see somebody in
the US doing what I'm doing in an American
accent and winning the American people.
But, you know, the same thing in Germany, Italy,
Spain, Netherlands, France, Japan, everywhere.
I know we're getting watched all over
Scandinavia, Canada, all of your places.
There's massive space to build that message, build
that message, build that message, build that message.
Because the power that we have, the power that
this channel has, all comes from a clear message
on social media being amplified by viewers.
And listen, this is what Rupert Murdoch does.
This is what the mainstream media does.
The mainstream media is dying.
We can occupy that space.
We can be Rupert Murdoch.
And if we are Rupert Murdoch,
we get what we ******* want.
So how do we deal with the blockers?
How do we deal with the blockers?
Okay.
What do I mean when I say blockers?
Okay, so for long time, I'll be honest, I didn't think
we were going to win this project, and I thought there
was opportunity, which I tried to run into, and I
didn't... Well, to be honest, once I started writing the
book, I thought we had a good chance, but like, I never
thought we'd be as successful as we have been, right?
In terms of winning public opinion.
We have massively
won public opinion now in this country.
There's a lot of progress be done in other
countries, and it's absolutely important that we
continue to win public opinion in this country.
I didn't think we would win the comms battle
because I thought we were up against the super rich.
Now I think we will, and I think, be honest, in
this country, we almost have won the comms battle.
You know, I spoke about it a couple of videos
ago, the vast majority of the public, even
Conservative voters, even Reform voters, support
wealth taxes, support a fairer taxation system,
think that the super rich should get... should
pay tax at least the same rates as the rest of us.
That is one, and yet we are now here in a situation
where... So I called out Labour in the last... two
weeks ago, and we got, I think, five MPs come back.
I think they've got 450 MPs or something,
like that, and we got five MPs back, right?
So that tells you where we are in Labour, and it was
largely MPs who are sort of a bit ostracised as being
considered on the left or the far left of the party.
So why are we in a situation where the public
want it and a center-left political party
called Labour, who are supposed to
represent working people, are blocking it?
So I think what you need to understand here is
that we... As inequality grows, our society
bifurcates, and what I mean by that is our
society kind of splits into two lanes.
And it's a bit... You know, it's obviously not as
clear as two lanes, but as inequality grows and
wealth gets concentrated at the top, what you get is
these very, very rich people at the top,
they're getting really, really rich.
The public is getting really, really poor.
They start to live very different lives,
basically, and rich people will go to elite
private schools, and they'll go like, an
elite university, and they'll get elite jobs.
I was in, Westminster this
week, and like, I went to Oxford for
a Master's degree, and it was amazing.
The place is exactly like Oxford,
an Oxford College, basically.
And you see that Westminster, just like Oxford
University, is just a part of this very separate elite
world, basically, that doesn't really inhabit
the same space that you inhabit.
Most of them, especially the ones
who influence the culture, are rich.
They come from rich families.
They've often been rich for several generations.
They view themselves as the rich, and when I
come out saying, "Tax the rich," they have a
very strong emotional reaction against that.
And I want to be clear, it's important
that I say it, we're not trying to tax
people earning 100, 200 grand a year.
We're trying to cut tax on working people.
We're trying to raise tax on people who have
100 million, a billion in assets.
So most of these people not in that bracket,
but there's a kind of instinctive, small-C
conservativism that comes from rich people, from
rich families, which is, "Listen, we're winning here.
We don't want rock the boat." It's important to
recognise when you have a crisis of inequality, it
damages living standards for the majority of people,
but for the top 5%, for the top 1%, especially for
the top 0.1%, they get richer and richer and richer,
and richer, richer, and they don't want to stop it.
So at the moment, we are in a kind of situation
where we've won the public, and it's very important
that we keep winning the public, and it's very
important that that spreads to other countries.
But the elite institutions, and it's not just
politics, it's also the universities which influence
the way people think about economics, the media, which
influences the way people think about economics, the
think tanks, which try to shape policy on economics.
All of these elite spaces,
central banks as well, are full of
rich people that are benefiting from the situation,
and they basically don't want things to change.
All right, so what do you do?
And in a sense, at this point in
the video, it becomes what do we do?
Because I've kind of gone through
how we got to where we are now.
I'm unbelievably proud of the work that we've
done, and I'm very grateful to you guys.
I've said it before, this, in a sense, was a
political experiment, which was, can we take
political power without any billionaire funding?
Just some guys making videos, being clear, being
honest, and amplifying that message through the public.
And a really interesting thing has happened here.
Before I made this channel, I was floating
around this kind of left-wing think tank
space, trying to find someone to do anything
on inequality, and I couldn't find anything.
And all I found was a bunch of guys... Okay, first
thing I'll say is this: I've had a lot of support
from good people in this space, but in general,
that left-wing think tank space, all they are doing
is lobbying politicians, lobbying politicians,
lobbying politicians, lobbying politicians.
And I decided to try something new, which
was to speak to the public, to educate the
public, and achieve power over politicians
by having support from the general public. So it's,
in a sense, it's kind of like a reinvention of
******* democracy on YouTube, and it's working.
It's working, right?
I can get meetings with these guys, and I think
as we approach the election, if we can keep growing
this social media platform, I think we can get into a
situation where basically they have to give it to us.
So there is a lot of reluctance in the Labour
Party, and you know, if you're in Germany, it'll
be the same thing from your center-left party.
If you were in the US under Biden, you
would have seen this, you know, just
the center-left parties are reluctant.
They are reluctant partly because
they live in their little bubbles.
This... They just don't like the idea of
tax the rich. Their funders don't like it.
A lot of their friends and their colleagues are rich.
They don't like it.
They don't want to give it to us.
I think with enough public support, we can force it.
Some people might say I'm naive on that,
but we are... The strength that we have is
this analysis of the economy is correct, and if we
don't get what we want, which is movement
on the taxation of wealth, movement on
inequality, living standards will keep falling.
So these political parties will
fail unless they work with us.
And the public discontent will grow
and grow and grow and grow and grow.
And this political space, especially online, which
is people hate the mainstream political parties, they
want something different, will only grow, and I think
there's an enormous amount of space for us to grow into.
So the plan for me at the moment is... I've always said
I view what we do strategically as two separate
fights, which is one, the fight for winning
comms, which means we need to win the public.
We need public support.
If we don't have public support, we don't get anything.
And second is implementation, and
implementation is a lot more tricky.
Implementation means making sure these *******
taxes are really well designed, making sure we have
enough connections within the political parties
that we can, we can get these policies through.
And it means having, like getting some support
from this kind of like elite posh boys club, which
is like academics and think tank, 'cause I...
Unfortunately, I don't think we'd get it without them.
And I've always said I focus on the comms battle
because you don't get to fight the implementation
battle until you win the comms battle.
Now, as we win the comms battle, I'm starting
to move towards that implementation battle.
And in the last few weeks, I cannot explain to you
how many meetings I've had, with think tanks
and with politicians and with academics and with the
people in the media and with other influencers
to try to make sure that as we come into
that next election, I have everything ready
to hold the politicians' feet to the fire.
I'm also speaking to other political parties.
Basically, this is the way that it works.
If my YouTube and social media presence is big enough,
as we come into that election, then I can demand
and I can get meetings with those Labour MPs.
It's as simple as that.
And the only reason I can get those meetings is
because you guys keep watching and sharing the videos.
It's as simple as that.
But as we get closer to actually winning the
fight, I need to also make sure that we have the
tax policy firmly in place, which means I need
to be talking to economists behind the scenes,
making sure that it's properly well designed,
that we have some connections in the political parties.
Because if we don't have anything,
I don't think we're going to get it.
But basically, I'm in quite a difficult
position, because all my power comes from the
popularity and the quality of these videos.
But I do now need to start talking to lots of different
groups of people, politicians in this country,
politicians in other countries, influencers, people
to really make sure this tax policy is designed.
And I need to do all of those meetings
whilst also making these videos ******* good.
So, that's what I'm going to be doing.
It would really, really help if we had more
influencers in more countries doing this work.
The more focus we can have on the
simplicity of ******* message, the better.
I spoke about message discipline
before I went away.
This will not work if it's just me.
We had like, an old politician,
Neil Kinnock, come out about a month
ago on the news in the UK, say, "We want
a wealth tax." That's my tax, all right?
Not just me.
Great work being done by PMUK
and TJUK on these kind of things.
He didn't say Gary's tax policy.
This is the way that you make something common sense.
You... It needs to be less Gary's
policy and more simple understanding.
If you don't deal with aggressive increases
in inequality, living standards will fall.
The way to deal with that is changing
the tax policy, tax the rich more, tax
working people less, tax wealth, not work.
We need more people doing the simplicity of message.
We need more people online.
I am probably, on this series, going to try to
get other influencers that I want to support
on, because I want to build that kind of WWF
model media to compete with that US alt-right.
When I say that, I want to be really, really clear.
If you are out there supporting the US alt-right
or supporting any alt-right, we're not against you.
We're trying protect your living standards.
Always be careful about distribution and inequality.
We're going to build this space.
We're going to keep making videos.
Unfortunately, this season, my energy is
going to have to shift a little bit towards
building stuff behind the scenes, which is
going to mean I have less focus on the videos.
You guys need to keep watching.
You need to keep watching.
I'm going to do my best to do both
of these things at the same time.
Keep watching.
Watch other channels as well.
Keep the simplicity of message.
I think next week I'm going to do video that
basically focuses on, how do you convince your
friends and family that inequality is the problem?
Because this is a political experiment.
Can you take over your country on social
media, on YouTube, by using ordinary people
as your amplifier instead of billionaires?
I think we can do it.
And the reason we can do it is because
the competition's ******* ****.
It's a bunch of posh boys who all went the same
school and they know what the ****'s going on.
And we're better than them, aren't we?
All right, so keep following, keep watching.
I know it was a long one this week, but
I wanted really center what we're doing.
And listen, you know, keep
watching, keep buying the book.
If the book turns up in the number, in the top 10,
if it gets back to number one, that's massive for us.
It keeps us in the news.
I've said it lot of times before, we don't
win this today, we don't win this tomorrow,
but the direction of travel is we're winning.
The opportunity is growing and growing.
So, listen, stick with us.
I'm already ******* knackered
and I've only been back a month.
So, if I look tired and the videos are
maybe not as sharp as they used to be, do
forgive me, but I have to ******* meet with
politicians every day and it's stressing me out.
Thank you very much.
Send this video to your friends.
Send to your mum.
Let's take over the country, my country,
your country too, wherever you are.
Tax wealth, not work.
Fight back.
Protect your living standards.
Protect your kids.
Thank you.